I remember there was one person who'd lost his children.
I'm not sure whether he was a local minister, I'm going back in memory.
And they don't know whether they talked to him but somebody had talked to him and he
was explaining obviously the devastation of his loss.
He lost a couple of children and it was awful.
And that brings it personally to you.
You know, you hear figures, there are 108 or whatever it was, people had died at Aberfan.
But then this man speaks about my children.
I've lost my children.
And lost it.
Lost your children when you think they're completely safe.
And you send them to school and it's the most safe environment.
Absolutely, you know, they're in the school building, everything's safe and then to die.
And the thought of the horror that those people must have felt in the last seconds of their
lives when they must have looked up and suddenly this mountain had moved and just engulfed
them.
And it's not like a wave in the sea.
You can swim out of that.
This just took them and killed them.
Must have been horrific.
Did the coverage affect your feelings of being Welsh?
Did you see it as a Welsh tragedy?
Well in a way it was because of course South Wales or the valleys were a coal mining area
and I've come from coal mining stock, although my father was an architect, his father was
involved in the mining industry and my mother's father was a miner.
So I do have background in that.
Although I've never been down a mine, I never want to go down a mine and I can't understand
how people can work down a mine.
It's a horrific thing to work in my view.
But it is very much a Welsh thing because Wales and the mines go together really, or
South Wales and the mines do go together.
And so it was a Welsh tragedy but the whole country felt it.
It wasn't just Wales, the whole country and beyond felt it.
As you say, the eye of the world was on Aberfan because it just televised.
Do you think this would have had an effect on the community?
I think those of us who weren't involved directly, probably not.
I don't know what it was like for those who were personally involved.
They were probably too tied up in their own tragedy to even be concerned about what outsiders
viewed, how they would view the tragedy because it was so personal to them.
They were living it.
Everybody else was just looking at it.